>> Steve Kinney: And
that all state is not created equal.
The problem with state is
that it is a very broad term.
And a lot of times even in mono
space font the word state,
there are a lot of pieces to it, right.
There's a lot of different
interpretations of it.
We have our model data.
So in the email client I work
in the list of campaigns or
the number of modules in each campaign,
the tweets in a Twitter feed,
be restaurants in a Yelp page, rIght?
That is model data that is
usually coming from the database.
And like for
a lot of backhand engineers, right?
And it's a friendly masters course,
I can pick on backend engineers, right,
no one is gonna get fully offended.
When we think about HTTP
where you send a request,
the only state happening is the database,
right?
The server springs a life answers
the request, sends the response,
your kind of interaction
is over at that point.
When we are client side engineers
the user opens the application and
it's just state until they leave, right?
It's where they are in
the application is technically state.
Whether or not they've sorted the list
of restaurants in ascending or
descending order based on reviews,
that is a form of state,
even though we're not changing
the restaurants themselves, right?
How we view it,
that is a form of state that has changed.
Figuring out if we're telling the user,
hey, we're going loading these
restaurants, or if we actually have
them already, is a form of state.
Where are we in the process
of getting the model data?
And in the case of single
page applications,
where we are in the app is state, right?
This is not just a separate
index.html page is being rendered.
But this is literally we're
using the URL to a lot of times,
signify the state of the application,
right, whether or
not they are at a given specific
tweet versus a user's page, right?
That is also like state.
So we need to get a little
bit more specific as well.
The only thing I wanna think about is Is
long-lasting state versus what I'm gonna
call ephemeral state.
And when we talked about, you might
not just take one approach, right?
Even if you're like, I'm using Redux.
There might be times that you
still use component state, right.
Because depending on the state
that you're working with,
it might make sense to handle
it differently, right?
Model state is usually
like long-lasting state.
It's what the user's working with while
they're in the application, right?
They're in Gmail, it's a list of
emails that they're looking at, right?
However, what they're currently typing
in an input field before they hit Enter,
if they're adding in a new to-do or
if they're searching their inbox in Gmail,
that's definitely more
like short lived state.
And we're gonna kinda go back and
forth a few times with this today.
We're going to sometimes we're gonna keep
that ephemeral state in a Redux store.
We're gonna use a flux architecture but
then keep it in a component state, right,
and kind of, get a feel for both of these
to figure out which one works better in
different situations and
sometimes it's a personal choice, right.
Which one are you more comfortable with,
right?
There's a certain beauty to having
all of the state of your application
in one serializable object that
you can store in local storage or
send back to the server but
there are costs, right.
Not just performance costs but complexity
cost, right, indirection cost that you
have to think about and deal with so
we're gonna take a look at both of those.
So as we look at different
components over the next day or two,
as we try different approaches, I want
you to ask yourself a few questions.
Does an input field need the same kind
of state management as your model
data, right?
Again, we're gonna try it both ways.
It's kind of up to you to figure out,
in the application that you work on a day
to day basis or is your general life
philosophy, how you feel about this.
I personally have gone back and
forth six times on this topic, right.
Put everything in the Redux Store,
right, and then it's all in one place.
Versus do I really need to fire
an action to a reducer to change
the store because they typed
something in a form, right.
I've gone back and
forth about this I don't now if there's
a always do this answer,
right, even overtime, right,
your thoughts and, I think a lot of
this is still in evolving art form.
So think about input fields, formed
validation, storing it all in one place,
versus compartmentalizing your data
across multiple stores, right?
There are advantages and
disadvantages to both, right?
And what our job over the next day or two
is to explore those differences, right?
To understand what are the trade-offs,
and what, for
the given thing that I'm trying to solve,
is a better choice.
Because spoiler alert there
is not a silver bullet.
We're gonna see, kind of,
through out this and
towards the end that even people in the
community, I won't name it at this point,
but you had it like you would associate
them with given library or project.
It's not always clear that
they've even bought into it.
There's always one way to do things,
right.
So it's interesting that I don't know
we're in a position to do that as well, so
part of our job is to explore this,
talk about this, figure it out,
weigh the trade offs and ultimately
shrug and be slightly undecided.
Because like most of the community
right now is undecided as well and
I like to think I'm smarter than everyone,
that's probably not true.
My wife would agree with that.